welcome back ladies and gentlemen zloz
Lamont Gummer II here with another
edition of the China history podcast yes
the sing program recommended recently on
the one and only Seneca podcast by none
other than the famous Kaiser Guang
thanks guys er still no intro music like
they have on Seneca I inquired about a
license for about eight seconds of can't
buy me love you know to kick off each
CHP episode but quarter million bucks
one-time usage fee was a little steep so
just imagine that song it's the CHP
intro music for this time patreon.com if
more you sign up I just may be able to
license a few Beatles songs for the CHP
go to patreon.com slash china history
podcast join the elite gang of CHP
patrons many of whom even went and got
second jobs just to support the show
warlord era part for this time 1917 1918
1919 such tumultuous times in the
fledgling Republic of China man they
were making the Ching dynasty look good
we left off last time in the aftermath
of the failed attempt by the pigtail
general Jungshin at restoring the Ching
Emperor onto the dragon throne in the
wake of this shake-up Duan Chi Ray was
made premier and chief decider in the
government and the warlord from Chile
province fung-kwok Chang he became the
new president succeeding Lee aunt Hong
who was far from his power base in the
middle yang down south he couldn't stand
up to these generals any more than you
or I could so August 1917 two warlords
in charge of the government for four
months anyway and from that point
forward it will be a revolving door in
the offices of president vice president
and premier down in the south of China
dr. Sun yat-sen set up a rival
government based in Guangzhou they were
trying to be a player on the world stage
but the foreign powers and big financial
institutions all know who buttered their
bread in China and they continue
to recognize the northern government
based in Beijing for now like I said you
had won and Fung in charge
Duan cheer a represented the interests
of the one she the on Wake Lake & Fung
was the head of the Jerle click the sure
she won of course for anyone who has
ever seen an on Quay Province license
plate knows this is the one character
abbreviation of Aung kway province and
all things on way wand was one of those
many small statelets that no one
remembers from the eastern jo times more
than 2500 years ago a she was the
Chinese term for a clique or faction in
all the history books these top warlord
groups were referred to as cliques which
to me going back to high school sort of
always had a slightly negative
connotation to it now down in Guangzhou
Sun yat-sen and his followers didn't
just lay down and die they may not have
had the international recognition they
hoped for but they still had their own
powerful military backers from 1917 to
1920 - there was this warring period
known as the movement to protect the
Constitution the whole file Eun dong the
Constitution being fought over was the
provisional one that your insurer Chi
had torn up in May 1914 Sun yat-sen was
leading the charge to restore that
Constitution written at the founding of
the new nation it was a civil war with
on-again off-again battles this movement
to protect the Constitution also goes by
another name the KMT called it their
third revolution this war marks the
start of hundreds of battles that would
follow big and small of this warlord era
from the outset it was quite a mismatch
so down in the south with a hundred
former members of the National Assembly
who opted to support the KMT rather than
or
warlords they assembled and called for a
military government to be established
based in Guangzhou and Sun yat-sen was
made the Generalissimo or grand marshal
that daya enshrine hey baby that's a
higher rank than Field Marshal and a
five-star general so September 1st 1917
this Parliament down in Guangzhou they
created this military government with
the express intention of uniting the
Chinese nation challenging the Bey young
generals and making them tow the
constitutional line easier said than
done as you'll see I thought for this
episode let's take a short break from
all the headliners up in Beijing I've
been mentioning and begin with the
province of Hebei if you're not familiar
with Chinese geography there are two
neighboring provinces who Bay to the
north and hold on to the south this area
geographically is as core central China
as you can get and not being on the
coast in all they don't get the
attention that the coastal provinces
have always enjoyed in popular modern
Chinese history and as we go along you
will see these two provinces were also
quite central to the warlord era in
China who Bay who none they sort of
played a geographic and strategic role
as the buffer provinces separating the
northern and southern governments of
China if you control Hunan well
Guangdong province was right next door
and that was your convenient gateway to
Guangzhou where the KMT government was
based but let's step away from all these
big names I've mentioned these past
episodes and turn our attention to
central China in doing so I hope I can
show you in a microcosm how things
devolved so quickly and naturally into
warlordism in China
the warlord down in who Bay was named
Wang China and I'm guessing most of you
never heard of him unlike most warlords
he wasn't from the province where he
made his mark in history
you came from a very poor background in
rural shunned ohm during the 1880s he
got his start fighting as a soldier in
Lee Hong Jung's y Army you remember that
from part one they helped bring down the
Taipings 1john your hands big break came
when he was admitted to the Tianjin
military academy here he was able to
shine and caught the attention of who
else but your insurer Kai and he was
able to parlay this relationship with un
into a position in UN's new army that
later became the Bey young army during
the second revolution when the southern
government attempted to organize a
challenge to your ends authoritarianism
1john UN and what could later be said to
have been a wise career move stuck by UN
shark eye and assisted in putting this
uprising down quickly now following a
period of political maneuvering
involving disparate interests in Hunan
and who pay dren was able to install one
con un as his guy down in Hebei province
this was in January of the fateful year
of 1916 well faithful figure in short I
that is this was the period when UN was
making his grab for the Emperor ship and
he had placed all these loyal generals
and all the governorships of all the
provinces loyal to the Bayon clique and
he was counting on their support as soon
as he became the home Shin Emperor
however following your ends bid to
become emperor in his March 1916
abdication not to mention the extreme
diminishment in his prestige and
political support it was only a matter
of time before his subordinates and
their grand ambitions and uncover noble
greed led them to turn their backs on
their one-time benefactor but as we know
you're in shirk I conveniently died in
June 1916 and that was the primary
accelerant that led to the warlord
period and what followed
was a tragic parade lasting from 1916 to
1928 that saw 26 prime ministers nine
different presidents a dysfunctional and
hopelessly corrupt Parliament and now
these regional strongman who took
advantage of the times to withhold tax
revenue farm their provinces for
treasure obtain loans from foreign
lenders and just line their pockets and
they thumb their noses at any laws
enacted by the central government in
Beijing and there was no central army
controlled by the ROC government who
could take these warlords on and worst
of all in the provinces were they ruled
they sucked the peasantry dry with every
conceivable tax and regulation even in
the poorest provinces in China a war
alert could make off like a bandit so
the peasantry which back then was
something like nine out of ten people
walking around all the provinces of
China they bore the brunt of the worst
of these famous successes of these
doujin or provincial military governors
who called their own shots and weren't
beholden to anyone in Beijing or
Guangzhou to prop them up when Mao said
in 1927 and 1938
Chiang can Salim in true juncture and
political power grows out of the barrel
of a gun they must have been thinking
about these warlords in all these
smaller petty opportunistic militarists
throughout the provinces these mini
warlords well they would swear
allegiance to someone who swore
allegiance to someone else and all the
way up to the top of the pyramid to a
particular provincial warlord serving as
the military governor the buck stopped
with him as far as military and civil
administration in the province the top
warlords commanded a big army with lots
of firepower and it was personally
commanded by him but it was the fealty
from all these much smaller army
down at the grassroots level no that's
how these major warlords control the
province and many if not most of these
petty minor warlords they were nothing
more than bandits opportunists and
predators of the worst kind and all
throughout this warlord period loyalty
he was not an everlasting commodity
these generals and all their officers
down to the foot soldier switched sides
and betrayed each other for whatever the
uptick was in the market price for their
loyalty so the lines were always being
redrawn according to the shifting
allegiances among the various cliques in
one China and he sort of led the pack he
was one of the first out of the starting
gate you might say who took advantage of
the situation you ain't sure Kai's
demise and all these Bey young generals
well they would either throw their lot
in with Dwan sheer a or they might
choose Fung Wah Chang Wang jong-un went
with the Jurlique leak which meant he
took his marching orders from from Guang
one China and many others like him
during the second half of 1916 you know
they were now spreading their wings and
sharpening their claws as they began
establishing personal control of their
respective provinces and no more was
there one single strong man like your n
sure Kai to inhibit them or boss them
around from 1915 to 1921 Wang Chao UN
was in charge of all whole Bay and ran
it like a textbook warlord he came down
hard on his enemies and rivals and
despite all the initial violence his
early years were marked with general
support from the masses and political
leaders who appreciated the relative
peace and order he had brought to Ho Bay
his soldiers were disciplined and he
didn't carry out the kinds of violent
acts
made these warlord soldiers so hated and
despised chaos turned to order down in
Hebei as long as order was present
throughout who pay one China and
remained firmly in charge to preserve
order it meant maintaining control over
the troops under his command he had
already turned this second division of
the Bey young army that you're in shock
I had given him command of into his
personal army all Warlord's did this
this became their core army and they
just built on top of that in the
beginning
Huang China and concerned himself only
with military matters but in the wake of
the anti-monarchic O War aka the second
revolution he expanded his control over
civil affairs as well as soon as he felt
in control of things and who Bey any
loyalty Wang China and felt for his
one-time benefactor yen sure Kai
evaporated in one jong-un he wasn't the
only one I'm just using him as an
example other warlords use the chaos
that ensued during and after the
anti-monarchy cold war to spread their
tentacles throughout their respective
provinces where yin had placed them and
through coercion and appointing officers
and officials loyal to them they assumed
control over civil administration who
I'm John UN again he was a nice textbook
case of what I'm trying to present every
province during the warlord era has
their own history that sort of went this
way with no opposition or viable
opponents to stop him one China n farmed
every nickel he could harvest from Hebei
province in his day he was one of the
richest men in China he truly was one of
the most predatory of all warlords one
of the extreme cases that gave these
militarists their well-deserved bad
reputation during the years he
controlled who Bey he never missed
an opportunity to maximize the amount of
revenue that he could deposit into his
personal bank account
besides the political and military
events that were unfolding Wang Jong
Un's undoing was his rapacious greed and
the loss of popularity that happened
with his own troops from the most
powerful warlord down to the basis
soldier everyone had their price and
time and again when one got cheap with
their subordinates immediately ones
loyalties were put up for sale and this
is what one jong-un did he got cheap
with his troops withheld pay often for
months he cheated on wages and in an act
that's all too familiar in today's
business world to cut costs he tried to
replace the older and more experienced
soldiers with newer recruits who were
willing to accept lower pay
this finally led to a series of mutinies
and who Bey that led to violent civil
disorder that led to loss of faith and
Wong is someone who could maintain order
and this ultimately led to one China and
Sun doing that and of course other
warlord actions such as printing too
much money with denominations that ran
in the millions never a good sign of a
stable economy he wasn't the last
warlord to wear out a few printing
presses it got so bad with one Johnny
ran in control that some officials in
Wuhan were begging the foreigners to
come in and establish control there were
two particularly violent and bloody
mutinies by Wong's troops in the major
cities of each hyung on June 4th 1921
and Wool Chun four days later and these
soldiers blew off a lot of steam about
all the back pay that hadn't been paid
and of course the attempt to marginalize
all the over 40 soldiers in favor of
younger cheaper recruits this created
havoc and terror on the streets of those
two cities and they
rekt by August 1921 one-china ends 15
minutes were up so to speak and after he
was toppled he fled home beta Tianjin
where he lived until 1934 dying at the
age of 74 by taking this little detour
down to hoop a province and zeroing in
on Wong jong-un we can see that familiar
pattern how all this happened
men like one jong-un didn't just appear
out of nowhere I've tried to show in
part one how the seed from which figures
like Wang China and sprang forth was
planted during the Taiping rebellion and
with the regional private armies who
acted as the government surrogates to
quash national disturbances in a
desperate attempt to carry out a great
leap forward in China's military
academies such as those in Tianjin and
Bao ding were being established that
served as the incubators of future
warlords and their associates and we'll
see moving forward
Wang China and story gets repeated all
over China in every province long story
covered about six years 1915 to 1921
lots going on all over China may 4th
movement and the founding of the CCP the
Chinese Communist Party let me just say
the Warlord's didn't like them Communist
Party members organizers and outspoken
supporters were always dodging the
Warlord's and the Warlord's as you might
guess also weren't too keen on the
ideals of the may 4th movement
especially the ones about getting rid of
the Warlord's let's go back and talk
about the setup for one of the main
headlining events of the early warlord
era this was the journey on way war it
was only a matter of time before these
militarists all started turning on each
other summer in 1917 there had been a
big confrontation down in hold on
this province next door to Hebei had
declared independence and Duan shear a
was itching to take his army down there
and bang some heads he needed Honan on
his side rather than having the Hunan
army lean towards Sun yat-sen but
fung-kwok Jong was staying Tuan's Han
and saying don't start a war let's
negotiate a settlement with respect to
hold on and this whole constitutional
protection war the two most powerful
forces in China Duan shear a and fungo
Jang had been at loggerheads over every
single hot-button issue since your ends
death but with regard to the situation
down in the key province of hold on
matters finally came to a head
duan viewed Honan as his shortcut into
the neighbouring rival provinces of
guangdong and guangxi when Hunan trended
towards the Bayon government things were
fine but by declaring independence they
became a serious impediment to Dawn's
unification plans in China with him on
top Duan cheer a pushed Fung aside and
indicated he wasn't in a negotiating
mood and he sent his on Kwai forces down
south to drag the whole non government
back into the Bayon fold in short Duan
sir--my was soundly defeated by the
combined forces from Yunnan Guang XI and
Hunan by November 1917 Duan Chi raise
armies after a poor showing had to throw
in the towel and following this defeat
on the battlefield the beleaguered Duan
shear a had to resign as premier for now
the fighting ceased but the problems
remained in the meantime over in Russia
the Bolshevik Revolution happened this
is going to have a rather profound
impact on China in the years to come is
1918 dawned the fungal Jong Ella
lupe fool its how could lead surely
click forces down to hold on and defeat
at the army down there that was in April
1918 this was followed by a negotiated
peaceful settlement with guangdong and
guangxi representatives spearheaded by
whoop a fool the situation wasn't
resolved but things quieted down in the
fields of battle fungo Chung leader of
that surely cleek he began to have
health issues around the time is
five-year term as president ended in
1918 by the end of 1919 he passed away
handing the reins of power to the Bey
young stalwart and loyal Jurlique leaked
general Tsao Koon the presidency of the
Republic was passed to a longtime your
insurer Kai comrade Xu sure Chung they
were of the same generation and she was
a few years UN senior he was a nice
compromise candidate not military be
unfriendly but allied to neither the
onwe nor the Shirley click those of you
who remember the Peter O'Toole character
in the last emperor it was
Shu Shu Chun who had been the Chinese
leader who arranged for Reginald
Johnston to tutor the former Emperor
Puyi anyway he was on duty as president
to the Republic of China from October 10
1918 to June 2nd 1922 that means he was
president during the events that led up
to during and after May 4th that epical
movement in modern Chinese history in
1919 let me just prime the pump for part
5 in the series by introducing a couple
names I've just mentioned two Biggie's
it's how Kuhn and we'll pay for some
names in this warlord saga are bigger
than others so as we proceed up and down
the timeline I'm going to occasionally
pull off to the shoulder and briefly
introduce the backgrounds of the more
important figures and where they fit
into our story and these two
they were pretty big Sal Koon the one
who picked up where funk wat Chun left
off as head of the cheerlead
he was just a few years younger than you
and sure chi and they had risen together
in the bay young organization Chow came
from near 10 Jean Shirley country he
came from nothing and in an oft-repeated
story I'm sure you're gonna get tired of
hearing he rose up through the ranks of
the bay young army eventually commanding
his own division so he was a very high
up general in the bay young military bad
blood existed between Sal kun and Duan
shear a this went back to Duan role in
thwarting Sal Coons aspirations to the
vice presidency of the Republic the
political wing of the un-- quake leak
was known as the on full of they bought
their way into the National Assembly and
did Duan she raised bidding and
political and government affairs there
are a number of battles and political
maneuverings that's how couldn't was
involved in but in popular Chinese
history he's best remembered as the guy
who brazenly bribed his way to the
presidency of the Republic how was a
politician at heart even though fate
made him a warlord while he dabbled in
the politics of the northern Chinese
government the official one recognized
by the foreign powers he left all the
military heavy lifting to his number two
will pay for its how could me if he
could say nothing else about him who
really wanted to be president of China
so he used his warlord wealth and
influence and bought his way into that
top spot the popular anecdote that has
been passed down since the moment it
happened was that supposedly he was
handing out five thousand silver dollars
to any National Assembly men who would
give him his vote it was dawn out in the
open no attempt was made to try and hide
it and when he became the sixth
president in 1923 1924 everyone knew how
he
got there and despite the corruptable
times they lived in everyone around him
sort of held their nose and shun that's
how couldn't by the start of the 1920s
the Warlord's were already acquiring a
very smelly and odious reputation
amongst the people and certainly amongst
the intelligentsia who couldn't write
enough bad things about solve and the
ill will didn't stop its how could by
extension the entire day I military
organization because of house blatant
corruption took a hit to their share
price that's all in the future however
we're still in 1919 its house closest
comrade in the Jurlique leaked of the
bay young organization as I said was
will pay full he was one of the major
stars of the warlord saga a very
influential and historic figure made the
cover of Time magazine in September 1924
I'm not gonna say he didn't play a role
in keeping China weak and divided in his
capacity as a militarist but he's
generally regarded as one of the more
acceptable faces of warlordism will pay
Fuu was very educated born in Peng Lai
Shandong Province same hometown as
chichi Guang who we featured not too
long ago in CHP 230 he passed all the
Imperial exams and was a very cultured
and educated guy but despite all that
background and education whoop a fool
turned his back on the civil bureaucracy
and elected instead to enter the
military and if I told you he graduated
from the piloting military academy and
later served and you ain't sure Kai's
new army I suppose you'd have no reason
not to believe me so he had his own
command in the bay young army and like
everyone in that organization he too
took sides
he went with teams early though he came
from Shandong lupe Fu's power base was
in Hunan central China in the ancient
Eastern capital of law yang
not exactly surely country but he had
taken fungo Chang side when the Bayon
cleek began to splinter its how could
assume the place of leadership in the
jury clique and saw head will pay Fuu
and one other warlord we will get to
next episode swidden Tron Fang these two
as his right and left hands and as we
close out this part for episode we see a
civil war quietly percolating within the
northern Bayon cleek
it's how Khun and will pay Fuu in their
determination to bring down twine cheer
a and expose him as a traitor to China
and a stooge of Japan went to great
lengths to publicly smeared Juan in the
press and in various other circles of
power influence so as the battle lines
were being drawn between twine she
raised on quake leekens how Koons
Jurlique league both sides got ready for
the inevitable showdown this is what
we'll look at next time the juliank way
war you won't want to miss that next
episode I promise you we'll finally get
to the old marshal the Manchurian
warlord junks all in he's gonna get a
little spooked at once she raised
actions and will line up behind tile kun
and will pay Fuu in the upcoming war
again I invite you to go to patreon.com
to put this stuff out there please
consider doing that
you all remember perhaps old CHP episode
159 chinese-american stars and
entertainers of old Hollywood a lot of
the info from that episode came from the
direction of mr. Arthur dong his deep
focus Productions puts out a lot of this
material about this subject they as a
new book out called Hollywood Chinese
the Chinese in American feature films if
I may quote it presents a lavish highly
Illustrated look at Asian Americans and
Hollywood films beginning with some of
the earliest movies shot in America
Chinatown's followed by a deep dive into
chinese representation and
misrepresentation in Hollywood's golden
era and ending with the remarkable
Chinese and Chinese American actors
directors and screenwriters remaking the
contemporary cinematic landscape
Hollywood Chinese the Chinese and
American feature films arthur dong look
for a link to the book in the show notes
thank you everyone if you made it this
far this is still laszlo montgomery
signing off from the city that made
southern california famous los angeles
the big orange thanks everyone who
expressed their concern about all the
California wildfires I could smell them
but I can't see them I'm safe for now
okay that's all for now do consider
joining me again next time for another
hearty and filling episode of the China
history podcast